- All [[Pauli Gates]] are Clifford Gates and the Generator of the Clifford Group: $\sigma_0= \mathbb{I}, \sigma_1=X, \sigma_2=Y, \sigma_3=Z$ 
- For n qubits one can construct the Pauli group:
	$P_n= \{e^{i \frac{\pi}{2} \cdot k } \cdot \sigma_{j_1} \otimes … \otimes \sigma_{j_n} | k=0,1,2,3 \; \mathrm{and} \; j_k=0,1,2,3\}$
	$e^{i\frac{i \pi \cdot k}{2}} \in \{1,i,-1,-i\}$
- The n-qubit Clifford group is defined as the n qubit unitaries $V \in U_n$ that normalize the Pauli Group:
	$C_n=\{V P_n V^\dagger=P_n\}$
Note that this only applies for the entire set $P_n$, not element-wise. Elements of the Clifford group are called Clifford gates.
### Examples
- $n=1$: Hadamard $H \in C_1$:
	- $HXH^\dagger = Z, HZH^\dagger = X, HYH^\dagger = -Y$
	$\Rightarrow$ The 16 Elements of $P_1$ are mapped onto $P_1$
- But $T \notin C_1$:
	- $TZT^\dagger = Z$,
	- $TXT^\dagger = \frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}(X+Y)\notin P_1$
	$\Rightarrow$ $TP_1T^\dagger \notin P_1$
- $n=2$: $\mathrm{C}_1\mathrm{NOT}_2 \in C_2$:
	- $(\mathrm{C}_1\mathrm{NOT}_2)X_1(\mathrm{C}_1\mathrm{NOT}_2) = X_1X_2$ etc.
The Clifford Gates can be generated by $\{\mathrm{CNOT},H,S\}$ only. The [[Gottesmann-Knill theorem]] is an important result for efficiency of classical simulation of Clifford Gates.

The Clifford Group only reaches a discrete Set of the Bloch Sphere.
With the Universal Gate Set every point at the Bloch sphere can be reached.

Discussion:
- Hadamard and CNOT allow to create entangled states. This kind of entanglement alone does not provide an intrinsic quantum speedup!
- Clifford Gates are **not** an universal gate set
- Universal quantum computing requires at least one non-Clifford gate, e.g. the T-gate
- Important quantum protocols involving only Clifford operations:
	- [[Quantum teleportation]]
	- [[Magic state distillation]]
	- [[Quantum Error Correction]] with stabilizer codes